The C3DC harmonized [Data Model](https://github.com/CBIIT/c3dc-model) unites multiple childhood cancer studies and drives the search experience. Initially, the C3DC database model will focus on a limited set of data elements, such as participant diagnosis, to establish processes for data ingestion, harmonization, data modeling, and storage. The C3DC model is developed collaboratively with contributions from Data for the Common Good at University of Chicago, Frederick National Laboratory, NCI’s Semantics Infrastructure, Cancer Research Data Commons, and National Cancer Childhood Registry team members. The resulting model will collectively establish the standard terms for pediatric cancer and will serve as guidance to researchers.

NCI encourages researchers to use CDEs to enhance data accuracy, consistency, and interoperability across diverse areas of health research. CDEs are pieces of data captured in multiple datasets across different studies. The caDSR, short for the [Cancer Data Standards Registry and Repository] (https://cadsr.cancer.gov/onedata/Home.jsp) is a structured repository for clinical and research data. Its content semantically defines data through controlled terms and vocabularies, offering detailed information about data representation, including permissible values, data types (numeric, date, text), and the ability to associate various local or source names with the same data value. Moreover, CDEs provide robust metadata, encompassing references to external standards, usage instructions, and examples of expected data formats.  The C3DC target schema will consist of well-defined classes with attributes and permissible values.
